IP statements extracted from http://www.ecrypt.eu.org/stream/phase3ip.html

Summary
=======

CryptMT    Free for any use if CryptMT Version 3 is in the eSTREAM final
           portfolio (otherwise free for non-commercial use).
DECIM      Partly patented, but freely available
Dragon     Free for any use
Edon80     Free for any use
F-FCSR     Free for any use
Grain      Free for any use
HC         Free for any use
LEX        Free for any use
MICKEY     Free for any use
Moustique  Free for any use
NLS        Free for any use
Pomaranch  Free for noncommercial use
Rabbit     Free for any use
Salsa20    Free for any use
SOSEMANUK  Free for any use
Trivium    Free for any use

Statements
==========

   1. CryptMT
      "CryptMT is patent-pending. Its property owners are Hiroshima University
      and Ochanomizu University. However, the inventors had the following
      permission from the owners:
          o CryptMT is free for non-commercial use.
          o If CryptMT is selected as one of the recommendable stream ciphers
            by eSTREAM, then it is free even for commercial use.
      " This was further committed to during a rerport made at SASC 2006, where
      the IP owners Hiroshima University and Ochanomizu University promised
      that if it stays in the final portfolio of eSTREAM ciphers, then they
      will make it free for any purpose (i.e. abandon the profit).
      This means that, if CryptMT Version 3 is one of the recommendable stream
      cihpers in the final report of May 2008 (planned by eSTREAM), then it can
      be used freely for any use, including commercial purposes.
      On the other hand, if it did not stay in the final portfolio, then the IP
      owners will not make it free (but it is free for non-commercial use).

   2. DECIM
      France Telecom beleives that the DECIM cipher is covered in part by a
      patent application in co-ownership between France Telecom and
      l'Universite de Caen Basse-Normandie (PCT/FT 04/0270, submitted August
      2nd, 2004).
      However, the inventors of DECIM wish that the DECIM cipher and the
      provided reference implementations are and remain freely available, and
      may be used for ayn purpose, including commercial exploitation, without
      restriction.

   3. Dragon
      The Dragon algorithm is made freely available to all users, at their own
      risk
      The submitters undertake to update the Ecrypt Stream Cipher project when
      necessary

   4. Edon80
      We hereby explicitly release any intellectual property rights to Edon80
      into the public domain.

   5. F-FCSR
      The F-FCSR-H v2 and F-FCSR-16 stream ciphers are the intellectual
      property of their inventors. This work is supported by the Université de
      Limoges, the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique and the
      Institut National de la Recherche en Informatique et Automatisme.
      To our knowledge, the F-FCSR-H v2 and F-FCSR-16 stream ciphers are not
      based on any licensed, patented or otherwise legally restricted existing
      work.
      The inventors wish that the F-FCSR ciphers and the provided reference
      implementations are and remains freely available, and may be used by
      anyone for any purpose, including commercial exploitation, without
      restriction.
      The inventors also undertake the task to update the F-FCSR ciphers as
      required by the ECRYPT Stream Cipher project when necessary.

   6. Grain
      The Grain stream cipher is Copyright © 2005, Martin Hell, Thomas
      Johansson and Willi Meier. The Grain cipher is not based on any licence
      or patents.
      We hereby grant anybody licence to use, copy, modify or distribute the
      Grain cipher under the following terms:
          o You may not license or patent any intellectual work and/or product
            based on a copy or a modification of the Grain cipher. You may
            include the Grain cipher in a licensed or patented product but the
            Grain cipher must then be excluded from the license or patent in
            question.
          o The copyright holders are not legally responsible for any damage
            caused by the use of any product based on the Grain cipher.
          o You may not use, copy, modify, or distribute the Grain cipher
            except as expressly provided under this license. Any attempt
            otherwise to use, copy, modify or distribute the Grain cipher is
            void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
            license.
      This license can only be made void by the copyright holders and the
      ECRYPT NoE committee in agreement with the copyright holders.
      The authors also undertake the task to update the Grain cipher as
      required by the ECRYPT NoE committee.
      (The IPR statement also applies to Grain v1 and Grain-128).

   7. HC
      The stream ciphers HC-128 and HC-256 are not patented and are royalty
      free. Anyone can use HC-128 and HC-256 free of charge. And I would like
      to update the ECRYPT Stream Cipher project when necessary.

   8. LEX
      Lex was put in public domain.

   9. MICKEY
      The designers of the algorithm do not claim any IPR over it, and make it
      freely available for any purpose. To the best of our knowledge no one
      else has any relevant IPR either. We will update the ECRYPT stream cipher
      project coordinators if we ever discover any.
      The original IP statements about MICKEY and MICKEY-128 remain valid for
      the version 2.0 ciphers.

  10. Moustique
      I, Joan Daemen, do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge the
      practice of the algorithm I have submitted, known as MOUSTIQUE, may be
      covered by the following U.S. and/or foreign patents: none.
      I do hereby declare that I am aware of no patent applications which may
      cover the practice of my submitted algorithm.

  11. NLS
      QUALCOMM Incorporated allows free and unrestricted use of any of its
      intellectual property required to exercise the primitive, including use
      of the provided source code. The designers are unaware of any
      intellectual property owned by other parties that would impact on the use
      of NLS. The designers undertake to inform the ECrypt Stream Cipher
      project of any changes regarding the intellectual property claims
      covering NLS.
      The IPR statement applies to NLSv2 without change.

  12. Pomaranch
      The Pomaranch cipher is copyrighted by the submitters. Noncommercial use
      is free of charge, and commercial use requires registration fees.
      The complete IP statement is available here

  13. Rabbit
      Rabbit was released in late 2008 into the public domain by Cryptico A/S
      (the company that designed the stream cipher), and may be used freely for
      any purpose. See here.

  14. Salsa20
      My policy is that Salsa20 is free for everyone to use. I am not aware of
      any patents or patent applications covering Salsa20. I will update the
      ECRYPT Stream Cipher project when necessary.

  15. SOSEMANUK
      The Sosemanuk cipher and the provided reference implementations are
      knowledge arising from a joint work carried out under the X-CRYPT
      Project, supported by the Ministère de l'éducation Nationale, de la
      Recherche et de la Technologie, France. Thus, Axalto S.A., France
      Télécom, Cryptolog International, the Institut National de Recherche en
      Informatique et en Automatique, the Centre National de la Recherche
      Scientifique, the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines and
      the École Normale Supérieure have joint ownership of the Sosemanuk cipher
      and its reference implementations.
      To our knowledge, the Sosemanuk cipher is not based on any licensed,
      patented or otherwise legally restricted existing work. The inventors of
      Sosemanuk wish that the Sosemanuk cipher and the provided reference
      implementations are and remain freely available, and may be used by
      anyone for any purpose, including commercial exploitation, without
      restriction. In particular, the inventors did not --­ and do not intend
      to --­ license, patent or otherwise restrict neither the Sosemanuk
      algorithm, nor any part of it, nor any implementation of it.
      The inventors also undertake the task to update the Sosemanuk cipher as
      required by the ECRYPT Stream cipher project when necessary.

  16. Trivium
      To the author's knowledge Trivium is not covered by any patent. Trivium
      is also free available for any use.
